Flow: Docs for discovery.kubernetes (#2181)
grafana/agent: docs/flow/reference/components/discovery.kubernetes.md

---
aliases:
- /docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/discovery.kubernetes
title: discovery.kubernetes
---

# discovery.kubernetes

> `discovery.kubernetes` allows you to find scrape targets from kubernetes resources. It watches cluster state, and ensures targets are continually synced with what is currently running in your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`discovery.kubernetes` allows you to find scrape targets from Kubernetes resources. It watches cluster state, and ensures targets are continually synced with what is currently running in your cluster.
```

> Internally, this component uses kubernetes service discovery from prometheus. [The documentation](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#kubernetes_sd_config) on their site offers further details on the metadata labels applied to targets and other usage considerations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Internally, this component uses Kubernetes Service Discovery from Prometheus. [The documentation](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#kubernetes_sd_config) on their site offers further details on the metadata labels applied to targets and other usage considerations.
```

I'd prefer avoiding linking out to Prometheus documentation to avoid issues where we become out of sync if upstream updates before we have a chance to support something. Let's reproduce what we need to explain to users here instead of linking out.

> If you supply no connection information, this component will default to using an in-cluster config. Otherwise, you can specify a kubeconfig file, or manual apiserver configuration.

Reviewer: Use present tense as much as possible:

https://developers.google.com/style/tense?hl=en

```suggestion
If you supply no connection information, this component defaults to using an in-cluster config. Otherwise, you can specify a kubeconfig file, or manual apiserver configuration.
```

## Example

Simple in-cluster discovery of all pods:

```river
discovery.kubernetes "k8s_pods" {
  role = "pod"
}
```

Specific namespace only with kubeconfig file:

```river
discovery.kubernetes "k8s_pods" {
  role = "pod"
  kubeconfig_file = "/path/to/kubeconfig"
  namepsaces {
    names = ["myapp"]
  }
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------

> `api_server` | `string` | URL of kubernetes API server | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`api_server` | `string` | URL of Kubernetes API server | | no
```

> `role` | `string` | Type of kubernetes resource to query. Must be one of `node`, `pod`, `service`, `endpoints`, `endpointslice` or `ingress` | | **yes**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`role` | `string` | Type of Kubrnetes resource to query. Must be one of `node`, `pod`, `service`, `endpoints`, `endpointslice` or `ingress` | | **yes**
```

> `kubeconfig_file` | `string` | Path of kubeconfig file to use for kubernetes connection | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`kubeconfig_file` | `string` | Path of kubeconfig file to use for Kubernetes connection | | no
```

> The following subblocks are supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sub-blocks are supported:
```

Name | Description | Required
---- | ----------- | --------

> [`namespaces`](#namespaces-block) | Information about which kubernetes namespaces to search. | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`namespaces`](#namespaces-block) | Information about which Kubernetes namespaces to search. | no
```

[`selectors`](#selectors-block) | Selectors to limit objects selected | no
[`http_client_config`](#http_client_config-block) | HTTP client configuration for kubernetes requests | no

### `namespaces` block

> Optional namespace discovery. If omitted, all namespaces are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `namespaces` block limits the namespaces to discover resources in. If omitted, all namespaces are searched.
```

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`own_namespace` | `bool`   | Include the namespace the agent is running in? | | no
`names` | `[]string` | List of namespaces | | no

### `selectors` block

> This contains optional label and field selectors to limit the discovery process to a subset of available resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `selectors` block contains optional label and field selectors to limit the discovery process to a subset of resources.
```

See [https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/field-selectors/](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/field-selectors/)
and [https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/) to learn more about the possible
filters that can be used.

Note: When making decision about using field/label selector make sure that this
is the best approach - it will prevent Prometheus from reusing single list/watch
for all scrape configs. This might result in a bigger load on the Kubernetes API,
because per each selector combination there will be additional LIST/WATCH. On the other hand,
if you just want to monitor small subset of pods in large cluster it's recommended to use selectors.

> The decision, to use selectors or not depends on the particular situation.

Reviewer: I find this paragraph a little hard to follow. Can you try to rephrase this less conversationally?

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`role` | `string`   | role of the selector | | yes
`label`| `string`   | label selector string | | no
`field` | `string`   | field selector string | | no

> ### `http_client_config` block
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `http_client_config` block

The `http_client_config` block configures settings used to connect to the Kubernetes API server.
```

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`bearer_token`             | `secret`   | Use to set up the Bearer Token. | | no
`bearer_token_file`        | `string`   | Use to set up the Bearer Token file. | | no
`proxy_url`                | `string`   | Use to set up a proxy URL. | | no
`follow_redirects`         | `bool`     | Whether the scraper should follow redirects. | `true` | no
`enable_http_2`            | `bool`     | Whether the scraper should use HTTP2. | `true` | no

The following sub-blocks are supported for `http_client_config`:

Name | Description | Required
---- | ----------- | --------

> [`basic_auth`](#basic_auth-block) | Configure basic_auth for authenticating against targets | no
> [`authorization`](#authorization-block) | Configure generic authorization against targets | no
> [`oauth2`](#oauth2-block) | Configure OAuth2 for authenticating against targets | no
> [`tls_config`](#tls_config-block) | Configure TLS settings for connecting to targets | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`basic_auth`](#basic_auth-block) | Configure basic_auth for authenticating against Kubernetes | no
[`authorization`](#authorization-block) | Configure generic authorization against Kubernetes | no
[`oauth2`](#oauth2-block) | Configure OAuth2 for authenticating against Kubernetes | no
[`tls_config`](#tls_config-block) | Configure TLS settings for connecting to Kubernetes | no
```

`scopes`             | `list(string)`       | Setup of the OAuth2 client.              |         | no
`token_url`          | `string`             | Setup of the OAuth2 client.              |         | no
`endpoint_params`    | `map(string)`        | Setup of the OAuth2 client.              |         | no
`proxy_url`          | `string`             | Setup of the OAuth2 client.              |         | no

The `oauth2` block may also contain its own separate `tls_config` sub-block.

#### `tls_config` block

Name                              | Type       | Description                                | Default | Required
--------------------------------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------ | ------- | --------
`tls_config_ca_file`              | `string`   | Configuration options for TLS connections. |         | no
`tls_config_cert_file`            | `string`   | Configuration options for TLS connections. |         | no
`tls_config_key_file`             | `string`   | Configuration options for TLS connections. |         | no
`tls_config_server_name`          | `string`   | Configuration options for TLS connections. |         | no

> `tls_config_insecure_skip_verify` | `bool`     | Configuration options for TLS connections. |         | no

Reviewer: Can you copy the documentation for basic_auth, authorization, oauth2, and tls_config from [prometheus.remote_write](https://github.com/grafana/agent/blob/main/docs/flow/reference/components/prometheus.remote_write.md#basic_auth-block) instead? It generally provides more information.

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name | Type | Description
---- | ---- | -----------

> targets | list(map(string)) | The set of targets discovered from the kubernetes api

Reviewer: ```suggestion
targets | list(map(string)) | The set of targets discovered from the Kubernetes API
```

---
aliases:
- /docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/discovery.kubernetes
title: discovery.kubernetes
---

# discovery.kubernetes

`discovery.kubernetes` allows you to find scrape targets from Kubernetes resources. It watches cluster state, and ensures targets are continually synced with what is currently running in your cluster.

> Internally, this component uses Kubernetes Service Discovery from Prometheus. [The documentation](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#kubernetes_sd_config) on their site offers further details on the metadata labels applied to targets and other usage considerations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Internally, this component uses Kubernetes Service Discovery from Prometheus. [The documentation](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#kubernetes_sd_config) on the Prometheus site offers further details on the metadata labels applied to targets and other usage considerations.
```

> If you supply no connection information, this component defaults to using an in-cluster config. Otherwise, you can specify a kubeconfig file, or manual apiserver configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you supply no connection information, this component defaults to an in-cluster config. Otherwise, you can specify a kubeconfig file or a manual apiserver configuration.
```

## Example

> Simple in-cluster discovery of all pods:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example shows a simple in-cluster discovery of all pods:
```

```river
discovery.kubernetes "k8s_pods" {
  role = "pod"
}
```

> Specific namespace only with kubeconfig file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You only need to specify a namespace for kubeconfig files:
```

```river
discovery.kubernetes "k8s_pods" {
  role = "pod"
  kubeconfig_file = "/path/to/kubeconfig"

>   namepsaces {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  namespaces {
```

    names = ["myapp"]
  }
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`api_server` | `string` | URL of kubernetes API server | | no
`role` | `string` | Type of kubernetes resource to query. Must be one of `node`, `pod`, `service`, `endpoints`, `endpointslice` or `ingress` | | **yes**
`kubeconfig_file` | `string` | Path of kubeconfig file to use for kubernetes connection | | no

The following sub-blocks are supported:

Name | Description | Required
---- | ----------- | --------
[`namespaces`](#namespaces-block) | Information about which kubernetes namespaces to search. | no

> [`selectors`](#selectors-block) | Selectors to limit objects selected | no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`selectors`](#selectors-block) | Selectors to limit objects selected. | no
```

> [`http_client_config`](#http_client_config-block) | HTTP client configuration for kubernetes requests | no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`http_client_config`](#http_client_config-block) | HTTP client configuration for Kubernetes requests. | no
```

### `namespaces` block

The `namespaces` block limits the namespaces to discover resources in. If omitted, all namespaces are searched.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------

> `own_namespace` | `bool`   | Include the namespace the agent is running in? | | no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`own_namespace` | `bool`   | Include the namespace the agent is running in. | | no
```

> `names` | `[]string` | List of namespaces | | no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`names` | `[]string` | List of namespaces. | | no
```

### `selectors` block

The `selectors` block contains optional label and field selectors to limit the discovery process to a subset of resources.
See [https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/field-selectors/](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/field-selectors/)
and [https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/) to learn more about the possible
filters that can be used.

> Note: When making decision about using field/label selector make sure that this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: Using field/label selectors 
```

> is the best approach - it will prevent Prometheus from reusing single list/watch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
prevents Prometheus from reusing a single `list/watch`
```

for all scrape configs. This might result in a bigger load on the Kubernetes API,

> because per each selector combination there will be additional LIST/WATCH. On the other hand,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
because there will be an additional `list/watch' for each selector combination. 
```

> if you just want to monitor small subset of pods in large cluster it's recommended to use selectors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you just want to monitor a small subset of pods in a large cluster, it's recommended that you use selectors.
```

> The decision, to use selectors or not depends on the particular situation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The decision to use selectors or not depends on the particular situation.
```

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------

> `role` | `string`   | role of the selector | | yes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`role` | `string`   | Role of the selector. | | yes
```

> `label`| `string`   | label selector string | | no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`label`| `string`   | Label selector string. | | no
```

> `field` | `string`   | field selector string | | no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`field` | `string`   | Field selector string. | | no
```

### `http_client_config` block

> The `http_client_config` block configures settings used to connect to the Kubernetes API server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `http_client_config` block configures settings used to connect to the Kubernetes API server.

```

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`bearer_token`             | `secret`   | Use to set up the Bearer Token. | | no
`bearer_token_file`        | `string`   | Use to set up the Bearer Token file. | | no
`proxy_url`                | `string`   | Use to set up a proxy URL. | | no
`follow_redirects`         | `bool`     | Whether the scraper should follow redirects. | `true` | no
`enable_http_2`            | `bool`     | Whether the scraper should use HTTP2. | `true` | no

The following sub-blocks are supported for `http_client_config`:

Name | Description | Required
---- | ----------- | --------

> [`basic_auth`](#basic_auth-block) | Configure basic_auth for authenticating against Kubernetes | no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`basic_auth`](#basic_auth-block) | Configure basic_auth for authenticating against Kubernetes. | no
```

> [`authorization`](#authorization-block) | Configure generic authorization against Kubernetes | no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`authorization`](#authorization-block) | Configure generic authorization against Kubernetes. | no
```

> [`oauth2`](#oauth2-block) | Configure OAuth2 for authenticating against Kubernetes | no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`oauth2`](#oauth2-block) | Configure OAuth2 for authenticating against Kubernetes. | no
```

> [`tls_config`](#tls_config-block) | Configure TLS settings for connecting to Kubernetes | no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`tls_config`](#tls_config-block) | Configure TLS settings for connecting to Kubernetes. | no
```

#### `basic_auth` block

Name          | Type     | Description                                     | Default | Required
------------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------- | -------

> `username`      | `string`   | Setup of Basic HTTP authentication credentials. |         | no

Reviewer 2: I think we should describe the fields rather than repeat "Setup of ... credentials."  Maybe just remove the Description column if there's nothing useful to say for all of these sub-blocks...

`proxy_url`          | `string`             | Setup of the OAuth2 client.              |         | no

The `oauth2` block may also contain its own separate `tls_config` sub-block.

#### `tls_config` block

Name                              | Type       | Description                                | Default | Required
--------------------------------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------ | ------- | --------
`tls_config_ca_file`              | `string`   | Configuration options for TLS connections. |         | no
`tls_config_cert_file`            | `string`   | Configuration options for TLS connections. |         | no
`tls_config_key_file`             | `string`   | Configuration options for TLS connections. |         | no
`tls_config_server_name`          | `string`   | Configuration options for TLS connections. |         | no
`tls_config_insecure_skip_verify` | `bool`     | Configuration options for TLS connections. |         | no

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name | Type | Description
---- | ---- | -----------

> targets | list(map(string)) | The set of targets discovered from the Kubernetes API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The set of targets discovered from the Kubernetes API.
```

## Component health

> `discovery.kubernetes` will only be reported as unhealthy when given an invalid

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`discovery.kubernetes` is only reported as unhealthy when given an invalid
```

> configuration. In those cases, exported fields will be kept at their last

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
```
